
Amazon Interview Experience | Set 282 (On-Campus)

I have just entered my third year and Amazon was the first company to visit our campus for Software Internship. The process was :

ONLINE ROUND
2 Coding questions and 20 MCQs . The coding questions were:

    http://quiz.geeksforgeeks.org/lexicographically-minimum-string-rotation/
    It was an easy string question similar to finding that the parenthesis are balanced or not . Instead of the parenthesis , a and b were to be checked for , For eg )
    ababab is balanced ;Its a good string
    abbbaa is a bad string .

I had practised MCQS from http://quiz.geeksforgeeks.org/quiz-corner/  and many of the MCQs I had seen here before that were asked in the test. Sorting, hashing, complexity, recursion based MCQs were asked .

Also, 2 questions on OS , 1 on Networking and 1 on DBMS was present . I did not attempt these since there was negative marking . I solved around 14-15 MCQs and both the coding questions . (However, some students completing 1 were also selected .)
ROUND 1

1. http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/serialize-deserialize-binary-tree/
2. Spiral level order traversal of a binary tree from bottom level to top level.( I was allowed to use extra space(O(n)) .)

ROUND 2
This round was easier than the previous one for me and went smooth .

    Set the rows and columns of a matrix equal to zero if an element in that row or column is zero (The elements could be positive or negative too ). I told him the solution using O(n) space . He then asked me to do it without the auxillary space and I told him that it was not possible . (A solution without space could be given if all the elements were either non-negative or non-positive )
    Merge k sorted linked lists . I discussed the approach using priority queue . Then he proposed another method of merging two lists into one and then merging it with the next . I explained him the complexities of both the approaches and then wrote the code for priority queue approach . He was impressed.

I would like to thank GeeksforGeeks for providing a huge set of problems for practicing for interviews. The internship archives were extremely helpful . Also I practiced on http://www.practice.geeksforgeeks.org/ and interviewbit regularly in the summer break.

If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article and mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks.

Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above

