
Amazon Interview Experience | Set 312 (For SDE II)

I was not able to recall phone interview question from Amazon for SDE – II . After few days from phone interview, I got an email invitation to fly for face to face interview. Below are the questions that I was asked during the in-person interview.

Round 1:
Write a program to check whether it is a valid binary tree or not.
Check all test cases (e.g. No left Node case).
Behaviour Questions

Round 2:
Behaviour Questions
Tell me your current job roles, responsibilities , Challenges and improvements that you can make on your current project

Round 3:
A lot of Behaviour Questions again
Introduction, your current roles and responsibilities

Round 4:
Various Types of Behaviour Questions
Design a kind of kindle fire application where we can subscribe news channel and read the news from all publishers as a digital format.

Round 5:
Behaviour Questions
Design an OOP concept for an application where employee can dispatch their incoming phone call according to their seniority level if they are not able to solve.

If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article and mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Amazon Interview Experience | Set 312 (Off Campus)

I got a call from amazon for F2F discussion for SDE1 at hyderabad. There were totally four rounds and asked to leave for the day.

First round:

    Find the kth smallest element in row wise and column wise sorted matrix. (No Heap solution)
    There is a given data with time and number of orders at that time and it will random. Then there will be a query of how many orders placed between a given interval of time.

Second Round:

    http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/minimum-number-of-swaps-required-for-arranging-pairs-adjacent-to-each-other/
    There given a list of strings out which we have to print the unique strings. Unique string is a string which is not repeated.

Third Round:

It was a discussion on my current project and the challenges I faced and how I managed when I am unable to meet the deadlines.

    There given a 2 Lists with int values. We need to find the longest chain. Eg: L1 = { 2,7,4,8,9,10}, L2 = {1,2,8,9,4}. Here the solution is 2 (chain is 2,4 or 8,9). Because 7 is present in L1 which is not L2.
    Given a equi-weighted uni directed graph and need to find the max distance possible from a given node.

Fourth Round:

It was again discussion on my current project.

Final question of my interview: Add 1 to the integer represented by a linked list with O(n) time and O(1) space.

First I start with the recursion and he suggested me without stack space too. Then I suggested for the reversing of linked list and then adding the number. He was again asked me without reversing of linked list. Then I came up with the solution with linear search.

Thanks GeeksforGeeks for your work in helping so many programmers!!

 

 

If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article and mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks.

Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above
